---
ID: 33076
post_title: 'Game of Thrones: Snow&#8217;s Seven'
author: >
  Anthony (Kbear!) Nichols | Senior
  Contributor
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://nayahscifi.com/2017/08/18/game-thrones-snows-seven/
published: true
post_date: 2017-08-18 02:16:16
---
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;"><strong>Title</strong>: Game of Thrones Season 7 Episode 5: "Eastwatch"</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;"> <strong>Genre</strong>: Adventure, Fantasy, Drama</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;"> <strong>Platform</strong>: TV – HBO</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;"> <strong>Director: </strong>Matt Shakman</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;"> <strong>Writer</strong>: Dave Hill</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;"> <strong>Rating</strong>: TV-MA</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;"> <strong>Release</strong>: August 13, 2017</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;"> <strong>Cast:</strong> Peter Dinklage, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, Lena Headey, Emilia Clarke, Kit Harington</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;"> <strong>Feature image</strong>:<a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt5775854/mediaviewer/rm1005134592?ref_=ttmi_mi_all_sf_13"> Source</a></span>

<span style="color: #3366ff;"><strong>[SPOILERS]</strong></span>

<iframe style="width: 120px; height: 240px;" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?ServiceVersion=20070822&amp;OneJS=1&amp;Operation=GetAdHtml&amp;MarketPlace=US&amp;source=ss&amp;ref=as_ss_li_til&amp;ad_type=product_link&amp;tracking_id=nayah099-20&amp;marketplace=amazon&amp;region=US&amp;placement=0345534492&amp;asins=0345534492&amp;linkId=d96098e25a1420a6aa5431101fcda6e4&amp;show_border=true&amp;link_opens_in_new_window=true" width="300" height="150" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
<blockquote>
<h5><strong>"Dragons are where our partnership ends.”  Bronn - Game of Thrones</strong></h5>
</blockquote>
<u>The Reach</u>

Bronn (Jerome Flynn) pulls Jaime Lannister (Nikolaj Coster-Waldau) out of the river deep back to the riverbank. Bronn asks Jaime what he was thinking. Bronn: “You saw the dragon between you and her.” Jaime thought he could end the war by taking the Dragon Queen out. Because of all the money Jaime owes him, he won’t let a dragon or anyone else kill Jaime, “Listen to me cunt, only I get to kill you.” That is friendship. Jaime realizes how hopeless this war is with Daenerys having three dragons.  Bronn: “You’re fucked” “Don’t you mean we’re fucked?” Jaime asks. Bronn: “No, I do not. Dragons are where our partnership ends.” Jaime sputters, "I have to tell Cersei." The two men head back towards King’s Landing.
<blockquote>
<h5><strong>“There are no easy choices in war.”  Randyll Tarly - Game of Thrones</strong></h5>
</blockquote>
Tyrion Lannister (Peter Dinklage) walks amongst the ruins of the battle. The Dothraki soldiers are plundering the remains of the Lannister army and marching the remaining troops to Daenerys and Drogo. The dragon is nearly as large as the hill he sits on. Daenerys Targaryen (Emilia Clarke) addresses the defeated Lannister army. She knows that they have heard she is there to murder and destroy. Daenerys: “That’s Cersei Lannister, not me. I’m not here to murder, and all I want to destroy is the wheel that has rolled over rich and poor to the benefit of no one but the Cersei Lannisters of the world.” Daenerys continues, “I offer you a choice bend the knee… Refuse or die.” Drogo roars and most of the men go to the ground on their knees except a small band of men led by Randyll Tarly (James Faulkner). Daenerys asks Randyll to come forward. Tyrion begins to get nervous. She asks him why he won’t bend the knee; he tells her he serves a queen. Tyrion reminds him that Cersei killed the queen he swore to serve and that they just sacked Highgarden. Tyrion: “It appears your allegiances are somewhat flexible.” Randyll responds: “There are no easy choices in war.” He continues that Cersei at least is from Westeros and doesn’t march with a foreign army of savages. Daenerys is through reasoning with Randyll, she gave him his choice. Tyrion tries to talk her out of it, especially when Dickon (Tom Hopper) won’t bend the knee either. He gives her several options, but both she and Randyll refuse them. Tyrion asks her not to behead the Tarly men. Daenerys: “I’m not beheading anyone.” They march the father and son towards Drogon. Daenerys gives the dragon the command “Dracarys!” and Drogon burns them. The other men who weren’t going to bend the knee change their minds immediately and pledge their allegiance to their new queen.
<blockquote>
<h5><strong>"We fight and die or we submit and die – I know my choice"  Cersei Lannister - Game of Thrones</strong></h5>
</blockquote>
<u>King’s Landing</u>

Jaime arrives at King’s Landing to inform Cersei Lannister (Lena Headey) how horrible their first run in with the Dothraki and Drogo was. Cersei tries to minimize and rationalize the damage to her army. She asks Jaime how many men they lost; he can’t give her a number until they count the damage. Cersei thinks that since they have the gold, they can hire a mercenary army to replace their army. Jaime explains to her that the Dothraki would defeat any mercenary army she gets, and the scorpion didn’t do too much damage to the dragon. A lone dragon torched their wagons and men, that’s not counting the other two Daenerys has. Jaime: “This isn’t a war we can win.” She asks should they ask their brother who killed their son and father to help them with Daenerys. Jaime tells her that Tyrion didn’t kill Joffrey, Lady Olenna confessed to him she did. Cersei doesn’t want to believe this until Jaime points out that Lady Olenna would rather her granddaughter Margaery marry Tommen than Joffrey, she knew they could control Tommen and rule the Seven Kingdoms.  Cersei realizes this is true and is upset that Jaime convinced her to let him poison her instead of flaying her. Cersei: “I shouldn’t have listened to you. She should have died screaming.” Cersei lays out what they have to do. "We fight and die or we submit and die – I know my choice," and Cersei pointedly says this to Jaime, “a soldier should know his.”
<blockquote>
<h5><strong>“Sometimes strength is terrible.”  Daenerys Targaryen - Game of Thrones</strong></h5>
</blockquote>
<u>Dragonstone</u>

Drogon and Daenerys fly back to Dragonstone where Jon Snow (Kit Harrington) is waiting for them. Drogon roars at Jon, but Jon doesn't flinch, as calmly as possible, he pets the beast. Drogon looks at Jon and seems to realize he might have some Targaryen blood and peacefully lets Jon pet him. Daenerys looks at this in amazement. Once she dismounts, Drogon flies off to join his brothers. She tells Jon her dragons are beautiful, Jon initially is going to disagree with her but swiftly changes his mind and tells her they are beautiful creatures. Daenerys tells him no matter how big they get or frighten people; she still sees them as her children. Jon remarks that she got back quickly, how did it go? Daenerys: “I have fewer enemies today than I did yesterday.” She can tell Jon isn’t pleased and she points out Jon must have killed thousands when he retook Winterfell. He acknowledges he did. She tells Jon that sometimes they have to use strength to change the world. Daenerys: “Sometimes strength is terrible.” Before they can continue their conversation, some Dothraki guards walk up and tells Daenerys they have a man who says he is a friend of hers. They present Ser Jorah Mormont (Iain Glen). Daenerys is happy to see him. Daenerys: “You look strong. You found a cure?”  Ser Jorah: “I wouldn’t be here if I hadn’t.” She introduces Jorah to Jon. They look each other over like bachelor contestants. Jon tell Jorah he served under his father and he was a great man. Jorah appreciates that. They all head back to the castle.

<u>Winterfell</u>

Bran Stark (Isaac Hempstead Wright) is having visions of the Wall. Ravens are flying above the army of the dead. Bran comes out of his vision and tells the maester that we need ravens.
<blockquote>
<h5><strong>“I’m tired of reading about the achievements of better men.”  Samwell Tarly - Game of Thrones</strong></h5>
</blockquote>
<u>Oldtown, the Citadel</u>

The maesters of the Citadel receive one of the ravens from Bran. A maester scoffs, “A crippled boy claims to have seen dead men on the march beyond The Wall.” Samwell Tarly (John Bradley) tries to explain to the maesters that he escorted Bran past the wall and that this crippled boy survived. They should listen to what he said and since the maesters are so well respected, tell the Lords of the south to send troops to the Wall to defend it, and the maesters in the Citadel should be scourging through their books trying to find a way to defeat the dead. Archmaester Ebrose (Jim Broadbent) agrees this could be true, but it could be just as likely that this is a trick from the Dragon Queen to get the Lords of the South to send their troops north, so she can conquer Westeros. The other maesters agree with this interpretation. He does agree to send a raven to the maester in Winterfell for further information.

Back at home, Sam and Gilly (Hannah Murray) are reading. Gilly is reading inane facts to an annoyed Sam. Gilly: “What’s an annulment?”  Sam: “It’s when a man sets aside his lawful wife.”  Gilly: “[High Septon] Maynard says here that he issued an annulment for a Prince Rhaegar and remarried him to someone else at the same time in a secret ceremony in Dorne. Is that a common thing in the south, or is,,,” Sam interrupts her before she can finish. He is upset that there is vital information in the books in the citadel that won't be found. He leaves and goes to the library, he uses his key to get into the restricted book cage and grabs books. Later that night he loads the wagon with Gilly and baby Sam. Gilly asks if he is sure, he always wanted to be a maester. Sam: “I’m tired of reading about the achievements of better men.” They leave Oldtown in the cover of night.
<blockquote>
<h5><strong>“I put my trust in you a stranger, because I knew it was the best chance for my people, for all our people. Now I’m asking you to trust in a stranger because it’s our best chance.”  Jon Snow - Game of Thrones</strong></h5>
</blockquote>
<u>Dragonstone (Part II)</u>

Tyrion is talking to Lord Varys (Conleth Hill) about what happened at the Reach and is trying to convince himself that what Daenerys did what right. Varys isn’t convinced. When he worked for her father, the Mad King, he would find the traitors of the crown and turn them over to the Mad King. Every time the Mad King would do something terrible, like burn people alive, Varys would tell himself, “I’m not the one doing it.” It didn’t relieve him of his guilt. Tyrion tells Varys that Daenerys isn’t like her father. Varys agrees, with wise counsel, she won’t become like him. Varys: “You need to find a way to make her listen.” Tyrion notices the letter Varys has and asks him about it. Varys: “It’s a sealed scroll for the King in the North!”  Tyrion: “What’s it say?” He tries to pretend as if he hadn’t read it but Tyrion knows better so he admits, “Nothing good.”

Jon is in the strategy room with Davos Seaworth (Liam Cunningham), Daenerys, Jorah, Varys, and Tyrion. The letter Varys had is from Bran. Jon tells Daenerys that he didn’t know until now that Arya and Bran were still alive. Daenerys is happy for Jon that his siblings are still alive but she can tell he isn’t happy. He’s unhappy because of Bran’s vision. The army of the dead are marching towards Eastwatch, a Night's Watch fortress on the Wall off the ocean. He needs to leave. Daenerys asks doesn’t he need more men to fight with. Jon agrees he doesn’t have enough but he will fight with what he has, unless Daenerys sends troops to help him. She can’t because if she leaves to fight at the Wall, Cersei will take that opportunity to take what they have now. Tyrion has an idea, “Cersei thinks the army of the dead is nothing but a story made up by wet nurses to scare children…so bring the dead to her.” If they prove that the dead are marching, they can call a truce, allowing everyone to send troops to the wall. Varys asks some good questions, how will they communicate to Cersei to even bring a wight to Kings Landing, and how will they get one. Tyrion looks at Davos;  Davos consents to smuggle Tyrion into Kings Landing to meet with Jaime. Jorah volunteers to go up north to capture a wight. Davos tells Jorah the wildlings won’t cooperate with him. Jon says they will with him. He is going with Jorah. Both Davos and Daenerys disagree with Jon going. Davos tells him he is the King, not a member of the Night's Watch; he shouldn’t be going on a mission across the wall. Jon gives the reason he should go, “I’m the only one who’s fought them before.” Daenerys makes her attempt to keep Jon from going, “I haven’t given you permission to leave.” Jon’s response to Daenerys, “With respect your grace; I don’t need your permission. I’m a King.” Jon makes an impassioned speech to her, “I put my trust in you a stranger, because I knew it was the best chance for my people, for all our people. Now I’m asking you to trust in a stranger because it’s our best chance.”  Even though she doesn’t want to, she consents to Jon going.
<h5><strong>“Dead men, dragons and Dragon Queens. Whatever stands in our way, we will defeat it. For ourselves, for our house, [touching belly] for this.”  Cersei Lannister - Game of Thrones</strong></h5>
<u>King’s Landing (Part II)</u>

Davos and Tyrion have landed on a secluded beach at King’s Landing. Tyrion: “Last time I was here, I killed my father with a crossbow.”  Davos:  “Last time I was here, you killed my son with wildfire.” Tyrion asks what happens if somewhat takes their boat, Davos tells him they are fucked, so he should hurry. Tyrion asks him where he is going, and Davos tells Tyrion he has business at Foggy Bottom. Bronn takes Jaime to the room where the dragon skeletons are kept for training. He says he's taking him somewhere where people can’t see him because he couldn’t beat a 12 year old Dothraki. Jaime: “Today might be the day I kill you by accident.” Out of the shadows emerges Tyrion. Bronn leaves the two brothers alone. Jaime isn’t happy to see him. He tells Tyrion that he once told Bronn he would split him in half if he ever saw him again. Tyrion tries to keep it light by complementing Jaime for his strategy at Casterly Rock, their father would be proud. Jaime warns Tyrion not to mention their father again. Tyrion: “[Our father] was going to execute me; he knew I was innocent. He didn’t hate me because of what I did. He hated me because of what I am.” Killing their father was in self-defense. Tyrion begins to tell him why he is there.

Davos walks into a blacksmith shop. A young man is busy working, the young man is Gendry (Joe Dempsie). Davos: “Wasn’t sure I’d find you. Thought you might still be rowing.” Gendry is happy to see Davos. Davos had looked all over for Gendry, he should have known to look for him in Steel Street. Davos told Gendry that hiding in the Lannisters backyard would be the safest place to hide. Davos comments on the passage of time, “Nothing fucks you harder than time.” He’d like Gendry to join him and Gendry immediately agrees to go. He doesn’t like making weapons for the Lannisters. Davos asks is he taking a sword, Gendry is going to take a large hammer instead. When they get to their boat, they hide the hammer. Two gold clocks come upon Davos and Gendry. They ask why they have their boat on this secluded beach. Davos pretends like he is a smuggler, smuggling fermented oysters. He says the brothels use it for their customers. After they taste some he tells them, “I’d hurry to your favorite establishment, or you’ll put a hole through that chain-mail.” After getting their bribe they walk away, but unfortunately Tyrion shows up. They realize who he is and prepare to take him to Cersei. Gendry emerges from behind them and kills both of them with his hammer. Davos introduces Gendry to Tyrion, and Tyrion says he’ll do.

Jaime walks into Cersei’s chamber. She is talking to Qyburn (Anton Lesser). Qyburn: “I could give you something.”  Cersei: “That’s not necessary.” Qyburn gives Jaime a sly look as he passes him. Jaime asks Cersei why Qyburn was there. Cersei says because he is her hand. Jaime: “I met with Tyrion.”  Cersei: “What did our brother have to say?” Jaime is surprised, she reminds him she knows everything that is going on there. He tells her that Daenerys is offering a suspension of hostilities to fight the army of the dead. Tyrion said they would have proof. Cersei smiles and thinks it would benefit them to accept. Daenerys thinks she is winning, so this will give them time to regroup. They have to be like their father and be cleverer. Cersei: “Dead men, dragons and Dragon Queens. Whatever stands in our way, we will defeat it. For ourselves, for our house, [touching belly] for this.” Jaime asks who the father is, she assures him he is. He grabs his sister and they kiss. Cersei whispers to Jaime, “Never betray me again.” Jaime’s look of happiness changes to concern.
<blockquote>
<h5><strong>“Yeah, nobody mind me. All I’ve ever done is live to a ripe old age.”  Davos Seaworth - Game of Thrones</strong></h5>
</blockquote>
<u>Dragonstone (Part III)</u>

Davos takes Gendry to meet Jon. He tells him not to tell Jon he is the bastard son of Robert Baratheon. Before Davos can introduce him to Jon, Gendry tells Jon he is the bastard son of Robert Baratheon. He knows that their fathers were best friends who won many battles together. Jon tells Gendry he saw his father once at Winterfell, Gendry saw Ned Stark once in his shop. Jon: “You’re a lot leaner.”   Gendry: “You’re a lot shorter.” Jon thinks about it and smiles. Gendry tells him he knows what Jon is against, and he wants to join him in this war. Davos tries to discourage Gendry for being so gung-ho but no one is listening. Davos: “Yeah, nobody mind me. All I’ve ever done is live to a ripe old age.” Davos, Jon, Gendry, and Jorah are getting ready to leave for Eastwatch. Tyrion: “You may not believe it, but I’ve missed you, Mormont. Nobody glowers quite like you.” He gives him a coin they received from a slaver and tells him to bring it back, the queen needs him. Daenerys gives Jorah a goodbye hug. Jon and Daenerys say their farewells to each other. Jon: “If I don’t return, at least you won’t have to deal with the King in the North anymore.” She quietly murmurs to Jon, “I’ve grown used to him.”
<blockquote>
<h5><strong>“I’m sure cutting off heads is very satisfying, but that’s not the way you get people to work together.”   Sansa Stark - Game of Thrones</strong></h5>
</blockquote>
<u>Winterfell (Part II)</u>

Robett Glover (Tim McInnerny) and the Knights of Vale want Sansa Stark (Sophie Turner) to permanently take over from Jon. Arya Stark (Maisie Williams) watches the activities from the back. Sansa weakly answers, “You are very kind my lords…Jon is our king. He is doing what he thinks is best.” Arya and Sansa later talk, Arya doesn’t think Sansa is backing Jon strong enough. Sansa explains that they need the Glovers and the Vale’s men, if they leave, Jon doesn’t have an army. Arya thinks that beheading them would work. Sansa: “I’m sure cutting off heads is very satisfying, but that’s not the way you get people to work together.”  Arya notices that Sansa is staying in their parents’ chambers. Arya: “These are mother and father’s chambers. You always liked nice things. It made you feel better than everyone.”  Sansa wants to know what Arya is implying. Arya accuses Sansa of wanting to be the Queen of the North, or even more. Arya: “You’re thinking it right now. You don’t want to be, but the thought just won’t go away.”

Arya watches Petyr ‘Littlefinger’ Baelish (Aidan Gillen) pay a young woman. She watches him talk to Glover and another man. She continues to follow Littlefield. Arya sees Littlefield get a letter from the maester. He asks if there are any other copies. The maester says there are no copies. Littlefinger says that Lady Stark thanks him for your service. After Littlefield leaves his room, Arya breaks in. She searches his room and eventually finds the note Littlefield ‘hid’. It is a letter that Sansa wrote. Arya slips out of his room, but what she doesn’t know that Littlefield has been watching her the whole time.
<blockquote>
<h5><strong>“And you need to convince the one with the dragons, or the one who fucks her brother?”  Tormund Giantsbane - Game of Thrones</strong></h5>
</blockquote>
<u>Eastwatch</u>

Tormund Giantsbane (Kristofer Hivju) tells Davos he thought it was his job to talk Jon out of these dumb ideas. He asks Jon, “How many queens are there now?”   Jon: “Two.”   Tormund: “And you need to convince the one with the dragons, or the one who fucks her brother?” Jon: “Both.” Tormund tells them that they found three other men a mile from the wall wanting to go over. They were tossed in the cells. The men are Beric Dondarrion (Richard Dormer), Thoros of Myr (Paul Kaye), and Sandor ‘The Hound’ Clegane (Rory McCann). Jon instantly recognizes The Hound. Gendry doesn’t want to work with them because they handed him over to a red witch who wanted to sacrifice him. Everyone in the group has some problem with other members of the group. Jon finally settles it. Jon: “We’re all on the same side…We’re all breathing.” The men who are going on the mission to capture a wight are Jon, Jorah, Gendry, Tormund, Beric, Thoros of Myr, and the Hound. Snow’s Seven walk through the gate into the cold.

<iframe style="width: 120px; height: 240px;" src="//ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?ServiceVersion=20070822&amp;OneJS=1&amp;Operation=GetAdHtml&amp;MarketPlace=US&amp;source=ss&amp;ref=as_ss_li_til&amp;ad_type=product_link&amp;tracking_id=nayah099-20&amp;marketplace=amazon&amp;region=US&amp;placement=1101965762&amp;asins=1101965762&amp;linkId=d045c9274ceeb825373fce0c5a185027&amp;show_border=true&amp;link_opens_in_new_window=true" width="300" height="150" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
<p style="text-align: center;"><span style="color: #0000ff;"><strong>_________________________________</strong></span></p>
Wow, this episode covered a lot. So much happened, it is a good thing I took notes. Cersei is pregnant with Jaime’s baby. Many people question whether she is actually pregnant, but I believe she is. When Qyburn tells her he can give her something, I think he is offering her something to end the pregnancy. The look he gives Jaime as he leaves, indicates he knows what is up. Drogo torched the Tarlys. Goodbye House Tarly. Jon petted Drogo, he’s a Targaryen. Gilly found proof that Jon’s father, Rhaegar annulled his marriage and remarried another women, though she wasn’t named, I’m 99.999% sure it’s Lyanna Stark. That makes Jon a legitimate heir. He ain’t no bastard now. Also it is clear his aunt really likes him. I’m not in favor of aunts and nephews hooking up, but on this show, it’s like hooking up with your fourth cousin on your mother’s side. Arya and Sansa are splitting apart, and Littlefield is working a con on Arya. I hope someone knocks some sense in them before this goes too far. The letter Arya ‘found’ was the letter Cersei make Sansa write to Robb to accuse Ned of treason and to have him bend the knee to Joffrey. Robb was smart enough to know Sansa must have written this under duress. Arya’s old grievances against Sansa will prevent her from seeing it. Tyrion comes up with his dumbest plan yet for Jon and his group, Snow’s Seven to get a wight to show Cersei the army of the dead exist. It’ll be fun seeing them on this mission. Let me not forget that Gendry is through rowing, he’s back. If I left off anything, you just read the recap so you know everything I do.

After last week’s exciting episode, there weren’t any battles or a lot of action scenes. Nearly everyone who isn’t dead showed up this episode. The episode sets up all the crazy action we should get from the season’s last two episodes. Here's an <a href="http://www.hbo.com/game-of-thrones/episodes/7/65-65-eastwatch/video/episode-63-inside-the-episode.html?autoplay=true">inside look</a> at this week's episode.

<strong>Grade: B+</strong>

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;